**B602: Test for use of popen with shell equals true**

Python possesses many mechanisms to invoke an external executable.
However, doing so may present a security issue if appropriate care is
not taken to sanitize any user provided or variable input.

This plugin test is part of a family of tests built to check for process
spawning and warn appropriately. Specifically, this test looks for the
spawning of a subprocess using a command shell. This type of subprocess
invocation is dangerous as it is vulnerable to various shell injection
attacks. Great care should be taken to sanitize all input in order to
mitigate this risk. Calls of this type are identified by a parameter of
‘shell=True’ being given.

Additionally, this plugin scans the command string given and adjusts its
reported severity based on how it is presented. If the command string is
a simple static string containing no special shell characters, then the
resulting issue has low severity. If the string is static, but contains
shell formatting characters or wildcards, then the reported issue is
medium. Finally, if the string is computed using Python’s string
manipulation or formatting operations, then the reported issue has high
severity. These severity levels reflect the likelihood that the code is
vulnerable to injection.

See also:

-   <span
    class="xref std std-doc">../plugins/linux\_commands\_wildcard\_injection</span>

-   <span
    class="xref std std-doc">../plugins/subprocess\_without\_shell\_equals\_true</span>

-   <span
    class="xref std std-doc">../plugins/start\_process\_with\_no\_shell</span>

-   <span
    class="xref std std-doc">../plugins/start\_process\_with\_a\_shell</span>

-   <span
    class="xref std std-doc">../plugins/start\_process\_with\_partial\_path</span>

**Config Options:**

This plugin test shares a configuration with others in the same family,
namely shell\_injection. This configuration is divided up into three
sections, subprocess, shell and no\_shell. They each list Python calls
that spawn subprocesses, invoke commands within a shell, or invoke
commands without a shell (by replacing the calling process)
respectively.

This plugin specifically scans for methods listed in subprocess section
that have shell=True specified.

<div class="highlight-yaml notranslate" markdown="1">

<div class="highlight" markdown="1">

    shell_injection:

        # Start a process using the subprocess module, or one of its
        wrappers.
        subprocess:
            - subprocess.Popen
            - subprocess.call

</div>

</div>

Example

:   

<div class="highlight-none notranslate" markdown="1">

<div class="highlight" markdown="1">

    >> Issue: subprocess call with shell=True seems safe, but may be
    changed in the future, consider rewriting without shell
       Severity: Low   Confidence: High
       Location: ./examples/subprocess_shell.py:21
    20  subprocess.check_call(['/bin/ls', '-l'], shell=False)
    21  subprocess.check_call('/bin/ls -l', shell=True)
    22

    >> Issue: call with shell=True contains special shell characters,
    consider moving extra logic into Python code
       Severity: Medium   Confidence: High
       Location: ./examples/subprocess_shell.py:26
    25
    26  subprocess.Popen('/bin/ls *', shell=True)
    27  subprocess.Popen('/bin/ls %s' % ('something',), shell=True)

    >> Issue: subprocess call with shell=True identified, security issue.
       Severity: High   Confidence: High
       Location: ./examples/subprocess_shell.py:27
    26  subprocess.Popen('/bin/ls *', shell=True)
    27  subprocess.Popen('/bin/ls %s' % ('something',), shell=True)
    28  subprocess.Popen('/bin/ls {}'.format('something'), shell=True)

</div>

</div>

<div class="admonition seealso" markdown="1">

See also

-   <a href="https://security.openstack.org" class="reference external">https://security.openstack.org</a>

-   <a href="https://docs.python.org/2/library/subprocess.html#frequently-used-arguments" class="reference external">https://docs.python.org/2/library/subprocess.html#frequently-used-arguments</a>
    \# noqa

-   <a href="https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_use-subprocess-securely.html" class="reference external">https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_use-subprocess-securely.html</a>

-   <a href="https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_avoid-shell-true.html" class="reference external">https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_avoid-shell-true.html</a>

</div>

<div class="versionadded" markdown="1">

<span class="versionmodified added">New in version 0.9.0.</span>

</div>
